------

AIRPORTS.DAT

This file contains data about airports. Each row refers to an airport and
contains 6 fields separated with colons. An example of a row from this file:

LRTM:Vidrasau:Targu Mures:RO:46.468:24.413

LRTM        - airport code, usually an ICAO code but you can also use non-ICAO
              codes
Vidrasau    - name of the airport
Targu Mures - name of the city to which the airport belongs
RO          - ISO code of the country where this airport is
46.468      - position of the airport - decimal latitude (north is positive,
              south is negative)
24.413      - position of the airport - decimal longitude (east is positive,
              west is negative)


To add an airport, simply add a line with the same formatting. Avoid having two
lines with the same airport code (the code is an unique key for Dolomynum).


------

COASTLINE.DAT and COUNTRIES.DAT

These are the world coastline (continents, islands, large lakes etc) and
country borders, drawn as closed polygons on the globe. Each line contains
either a pair of decimal latitude and longitude values separated by a colon, or
the 'end' word. Lines are drawn between subsequent lat-lon pairs. The 'end'
word means the beginning of a new polygon. At the end, a line is drawn to the
beginning to close the polygon.

The current files are based on World Data Base II from the USGS Coastline
Extractor - http://rimmer.ngdc.noaa.gov/coast/ and adapted: some very fine
reolution (<2 NM from each other) have been striped and lines arranged to be
closed polygons for faster drawing.


------

FIRLIST.DAT

This contains the list of sectors, each row referring to a sector and
containing 6 fields separated with colons. An example of a row from this file:

LRBB:Bucharest:RO:45.9:25.6:186

LRBB      - FIR code, usually an ICAO code but you can also use non-ICAO
            codes, or add middle letter(s) to them (e.g. LRBB_N)
Bucharest - name of the sector
RO        - [UNUSED] ISO code of the country where this airspace is
45.3      - position of the label - decimal latitude (north is positive,
            south is negative)
25.6      - position of the label - decimal longitude (east is positive,
            west is negative)
186       - Display List ID, a number that uniquely identifies the shape
            in firdisplay.dat that is displayed when this sector is active


To create a new sector, you must add a new line with the same formatting. To
create aliases to existing sectors (different codes identifying the same
airspace), use the same Display List ID (186 in the above example). If you
want to add a new airspace, you should first add its shape to firdisplay.dat
with a previously unused Display List ID (you can use any ID between 100 and
9999).

Avoid having two lines with the same airspace code (the code is a unique
key for Dolomynum).


------

FIRDISPLAY.DAT

This contains the shapes of the airspaces, constructed of points described as
lat-lon pairs. The connection between firlist.dat and firdisplay.dat is made
through the Display List IDs. The ID is mentioned at the beginning of each
unit; after which the shape of the airspace will follow. For example:

DISPLAY_LIST_186
43.75:28.6
43.83:28
43.99:27.95
(etc)

You can edit existing airspace shapes, or add new ones (in the latter case,
don't forget to update firlist.dat too). To create new shapes, you can use
the sconv.exe in from Dolomynum \tools that can convert sector files of ATC
clients (IvAc, ASRC, VRC, ProController), or Servinfo / IvAe data files to
Dolomynum format. To view the existing (or newly created) airspaces on the
globe, use sectorview.exe from Dolomynum \tools.

Avoid having two shapes with the same Display List ID.


------

FIRDISPLAY.SUP (unused since QuteScoop v2.4.0)

Any shapes present in this file will suppress those in firdisplay.dat. These
are not overwritten each time when firdisplay.dat is updated, so it is
especially useful when you wish to change the shape of only a couple of
airspaces (e.g. VATSIM-IVAO differences).


------

AIRLINES.DAT

This file structure is the same that EuroScope uses in its ICAO_Airlines.txt.

ICAO Code 	Airline Name	Callsing	Country

Example:
AAA	Ansett Australia	ANSETT	Australia

ICAO Code:		AAA
Airlnie Name:	Ansett Australia
Callsign:		ANSETT
Country:		Australia


------
deprecated: will be removed
CLOUDMIRRORS.dat

This contains mirrors to download cloud images.
Format:

[2048px]
http://xplanet-sydney.inside.net/clouds_2048.jpg
;http://home.megapass.co.kr/~gitto88/cloud_data/clouds_2048.jpg

[2048px] -- for 2048 px images(low resolution)
http://xplanet-sydney.inside.net/clouds_2048.jpg -- URL
;http://home.megapass.co.kr/~gitto88/cloud_data/clouds_2048.jpg -- line comment, ignored

------

